At the time of this writing, my wife and I are a little less than 3
months from having our first child.  The story of how we met is
strange and very San Francisco, so I thought I'd write it down.

On Valentine's Day of 2011, I was single, and so was my relatively
recent ex Cristina Chow, twitter-famous as @ladyfox14 .  She called me
up and said something like: "hey, we're both single, and I don't think
either of us wants to be the loser eating alone on Valentine's day.
So let's go get sushi!"  I said fine, and we had a nice dinner.  At
some point during the dinner, Cristina said "hey, since we're not
dating any more, you should date this girl carmen I know on twitter!",
and showed me a picture of a lovely young woman.  Having nothing to
lose, I told her to set it up.

The next morning, I got a linkedin connection request from carmen.  I
wasn't sure of the right ettiquette for the situation, but I figured
that I'd be OK if I accepted her connection request, friended her on
facebook, and then asked her out there.  I figured that way she didn't
have to give me any scary information like phone number or email, and
if she only wanted to network, then she could just deny the facebook
friend request.

She did accept the friend request, and as soon as I saw that she had,
I immediately said something like: "hey, we have a mutual friend-let's
get dinner some time".  She replied that she actually knew _me_.  I
couldn't see myself forgetting a face like hers, but here's how it
happened:

Y Combinator has a Startup School every year, and in 2010, I went to
recruit people for twitter.  After the conference, there was a
distributed afterparty, hosted by a bunch of companies.  Carmen was
there marketing, lugging around a handle of Bacardi that one of her
cofounders liberated from the party bus.  I was totally hammered and
have fragmentary memories of shouting at some dude "THIS is why you
HAVE to join Twitter RIGHT NOW!" over and over again, and carmen
networked with lots of people.  For once in my life, I had a business
card with me, and I gave it to her.  The next day, she sent me a "nice
to meet you" email, to which I responded "nice to meet you too!"
(person I have no memory of at all).  Carmen followed me on twitter
and noticed that I was still, at the time, dating Cristina.  She then
followed Cristina, and the two of them interacted several times.  They
both signed up for GrubWithUs, and were going to meet, but never did,
because Cristina got sick.  This was the sum total of their
interactions: a few tweets back and forth and a planned but never
consummated meeting in person at a group dinner.

Interestingly, Cristina never told Carmen to contact me.  It was pure
luck that the morning after the Valentine's dinner, Carmen chose to
import her gmail address book into LinkedIn, and LinkedIn of course
spammed everyone she knew, including those with no memory of her, with
connection requsets.

There is one more wrinkle that the means of our introduction caused in
our relationship.  Both Carmen and I love technology, and it was
natural that we talked about it a lot on our first date.  And our
second.  By the third, I was worried that she wanted to network,
rather than date, so I decided to force the issue by going in for a
kiss when I dropped her off at BART after our date.  It was a
spectacular disaster.  Carmen looked like she had just stepped in dog
poo, and it was only with extraordinary neck agility that I was able
to land the kiss on her cheek as she retreated.  Once she had backed
up enough to establish a cordon sanitaire of sorts, she said "OK,
bye!" and I figured I'd never see her again.  I said as much in my
howaboutwe.com journal that I was keeping at the time, saying
something like:

  I tried to kiss the girl I've been going out with and she was
  totally not into it.  60% chance I never see her again.

My father always says that I am walking, talking proof that it is
better to be lucky than smart.  I hit my 40% chance when Carmen
messaged me a few days later and asked if she could still come to
twitter for lunch.  From there on in, it was pretty smooth sailing,
and our first child is due right around 3/14/15-the most epic pi day
birthday possible.
