I went to a movie at the Union Square United Artists theater in New York, with my then-girlfriend, and on the way in I noticed that our seats were next to the exit, and up a bit. One could either walk across the row of seats, down the stairs, across the front of the theater, and then down an aisle, or one could jump a rail and drop 6 feet or so.  Obviously, it would be funny for me to jump the rail and have my friend wonder where the hell I had gotten to, as she was closer to the aisle than I was and would be looking the other way as we exited.  I would drop silent and ninjalike to the exit, and be waiting for her when she gave up looking for me in the emptying theater.

As the movie finished, I checked to be sure that there was no one there, and then hopped the rail. As I was going over, I noted that it was more than 6 feet. It was, in fact, close to 15.  Worse, I couldn't really tell where the bottom was, because the lights didn't really light up dark carpeted floor well.  Having lost my composure, I one-footed my landing, going down rather like a shotgunned duck.  However, my original plan worked like a charm-my friend heard the audible snap of my tibia, and wondered where the hell I had gotten to.  Most amusing.

I figured that I could walk this one off, so I walked a mile or so back to my office in SoHo, read a bit, and then went home. I could not really walk by this point, so I hopped up the stairs and went to bed. The next day (Saturday) I couldn't walk to the office, so I took a taxi.  I tried to work, but the pain and swelling got to be too much even for me, and I set out for the hospital.  This being the first really nice day of 2005, naturally I could not get a cab on Broadway and Grand.  I figured that I could get one on Canal street a few blocks down, so I hopped down Broadway on one foot(this, incidentally, is an excellent way to draw attention to oneself), until I couldn't make it any farther.  I gave up and started hopping back, but then tripped, catching my full weight on my broken leg.  I could actually feel the pain ascending my leg...it felt like a shiver working up from my feet.  Then I decided that I just had to get to the hospital, and so I hopped back down Broadway, passing the illegal vendors for the third time.  I noted that while there were no available taxis, there were many full ones. Never one to be shy, I hopped out into the street and said that I had broken my leg(omitting that I had done it the night before), and asked to share a woman's cab. Then I had her drop me off where I thought the hospital was.  I was wrong.  Then I hailed another cab, and had him take me to the address I had written down. That turned out to be wrong also. Fortunately, I was pretty close by then (both to the hospital and to gnawing my leg off). I then hopped the remaining 5 blocks, finally entering the hospital.  The door gaurd looked me up and down, and asked "Something wrong with your leg?".  I don't think he'll ever know how close he came to death that day.  He got me a wheelchair with an elevated rest for my broken leg, and I tore off to the ER.  I wasn't quite fast enough putting the brakes on when I pulled into the elevator, and I ran into the back wall with my extended foot.  By the time I got to the ER, my eyes were streaming and I must have looked quite a mess-the admitting nurse asked me if I had tried to commit suicide.  I started laughing, and told her that I was dumb, not suicidal.  They fitted me with a plaster half-cast, and sent me on my way, with instructions to get a real cast the next day.  

There is a bit of an epilog to this: I was to get my cast off 6 weeks later, but the Taste of Chinatown food festival happened a few days before my removal date.  I DO NOT miss the Taste of Chinatown festival.  I couldn't really negotiate the streets in crutches, So I tried walking in my cast, but that was a pain in the ass, so I decided to remove my cast-I went and got a boxcutter from the utility closet at work, and slit the cast down the back.  When I went to the removal/check-your-leg appointment, the doctor was enraged, and berated me for taking such chances, and then pronounced me fit of leg and numb of brain.  