I'm starting up a new project right now, interspersed with interviews for a new job.  The project is essentialy my effort to take a new swing at social news.  The things I know I'm using in this project so far are: heroku, DataMapper, bluetrip, jQuery, jwacs, rack, cloudkit, and goaloc.  The things I might use are rails, merb, and sinatra.  The reasons:

heroku is my current default for deploying new rails apps, at least until I get beyond their scaling capabilities, which none of my toy apps has done.  
DataMapper appears to be somewhat terser than ActiveRecord, and has better performance on several dimensions.  Also, the developer I respect the most in Boston absolutely cannot stop raving about it, and I have not yet known him to be wrong.
Bluetrip is the css framework that makes me a halfway competent CSS guy.  The typography it installs by default is excellent (far better than BluePrint's), and grid layouts are much better than what I could typically do myself.
jQuery wins for most normal javascript hacking on the basis of brevity and a very powerful model-it almost constitutes a new language, in the same way that rails does with ruby.  I've considered ext as a potential replacement, and I might do side-by-side benchmarks implementing a few small things to compare them, but jQuery has been my default choice for about 1.5 years now.
jwacs is far and away the most obscure bit of software here that I didn't write.  It is a compiler from a language that is very like javascript, but with continuations, to javascript.  This allows one to do intricate guis, written in a linear style, which would typically require seaside or another continuation-based framework.
rack has rapidly become the way one splits a large app up into smaller modules, communicating over HTTP.  It'd be silly nowadays not to use it to separate things like authentication out into something separate.  
cloudkit is The Right Thing (tm) if all one wants is to expose a given model as a json service.  I have several models that will be used this way, so I'll be doing lots of cloudkit.  
Finally, goaloc is my pet project-it takes in a representation of the models and routes used by an app and spits out code defining the specified app(s).  It currently targets rails, but I'm adding support for sinatra and merb now.  In the course of doing so, I'll decide which frameworks I'll use as the base of the project.  
